1.environment.md, before:

# Installing a Python dev environment

## git and github

- [git installation](https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Getting-Started-Installing-Git)
(git bash for [Windows](https://git-scm.com/download/win)): git is a versioning system.
- [github](https://github.com) is a platform to work collaboratively on the source code of hosted Open Source projects such as scikit-learn and NumPy.

- Clone numpy with git:
  ```
  $ git clone https://github.com/numpy/numpy.git
  ```
- Fork scikit-learn on github then clone your fork with git:
  ```
  $ git clone https://github.com/<myuser>/scikit-learn
  ```
- Configure some aliases for the remote repositories:

  List existing aliases:
  ```
  $ git remote -v
  ```
  
  Add a new alias for your fork on github:
  ```
  $ git remote add upstream https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn.git
  ```
  
  Check that your new alias has been properly configured:
  ```
  $ git remote -v
  ```

## conda

### Install miniconda

- [miniconda](https://docs.conda.io/en/latest/miniconda.html)
[installation](https://conda.io/projects/conda/en/latest/user-guide/install/index.html) (latest Python3 version)
- initialize the conda command in git bash
  - Windows: open "Git Bash" and type
  ```
  $ ./Miniconda3/Scripts/conda init bash
  ```
  - Linux:
  ```
  $ conda init bash
  ```
- then close your shell and start a new one to type:
  
  ```
  $ conda info
  ```
  or
  
  ```
  $ which conda
  ```
  to check that the conda command is in your PATH and useable from your shell.

### conda environments

- create an environment (`sklworkshop`)
```
$ conda create --name sklworkshop
```
- activate and deactivate environments
```
$ conda activate sklworkshop
(sklworkshop)$ conda deactivate
```
- version, environment and package listing
```
$ conda --version
$ conda env list
$ conda list
```

## VS Code

Install VSCode following your
[system instructions](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/setup/setup-overview#_cross-platform).

Launch VSCode and configure [Telemetry settings](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/getstarted/telemetry).

Install the Python extension
- `Ctrl+Shift+X` open the extension manager
- search for the python extension: install

Open project folder for numpy: `Ctrl-k Ctrl-o` 

Open a Python file from the project: `setup.py`.

In order to work with VSCode in your Python environment
- `Ctrl+Shift+P` then "python select interpreter" and choose "sklworkshop"

Open project folder for scikit-learn: `Ctrl-k Ctrl-o`

Activate the "sklworkshop" Python interpreter for the scikit-learn project.

Switch between projects: `Ctrl-r`

Browse the code:
- by files `Ctrl-p`
- by symbols `Ctrl-t`

At some point VSCode will complain about not finding a linter: scikit-learn uses `flake8`
- Install `flake8` in your conda environment
```
$ conda activate sklworkshop
(sklworkshop)$ conda install flake8
```
- Select `flake8` as a linter in VSCode: `Ctrl-Shift-P` "select linter"

## Practical code navigation

Find example files that mention the word "importance" in different ways:
- VSCode: `Ctrl-p` "example importance" and open `plot_permutation_importance.py`
- Github: go to https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn in your browser, press `t` and type "example/importance"

Navigate to the RandomForestClassifier or Regressor from the `plot_permutation_importance.py` example:
- VSCode: ctrl-clicking on the class name
- github: clicking on the class name

Find the class KMeans in scikit-learn in two different ways:
- from the command line: using `git grep "class KMeans"` (-i case insensitive, note that without "class" you will find
all occurrences) 
- VSCode: `Ctrl-t` KMeans (disable the jedi extension if it doesn't work)

## Installing C/C++ compilers to be able to build native extensions

See instructions for your OS in the [installation guide](https://scikit-learn.org/stable/developers/advanced_installation.html#building-from-source).
- [Windows](https://scikit-learn.org/stable/developers/advanced_installation.html#windows)
- [macOS](https://scikit-learn.org/stable/developers/advanced_installation.html#macos)
- [Linux](https://scikit-learn.org/stable/developers/advanced_installation.html#linux)

Commit message:

Compiler instructions for macOS users.

1.environment.md, after:

# Installing a Python dev environment

## git and github

- [git installation](https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Getting-Started-Installing-Git)
(git bash for [Windows](https://git-scm.com/download/win)): git is a versioning system.
- [github](https://github.com) is a platform to work collaboratively on the source code of hosted Open Source projects such as scikit-learn and NumPy.

- Clone numpy with git:
  ```
  $ git clone https://github.com/numpy/numpy.git
  ```
- Fork scikit-learn on github then clone your fork with git:
  ```
  $ git clone https://github.com/<myuser>/scikit-learn
  ```
- Configure some aliases for the remote repositories:

  List existing aliases:
  ```
  $ git remote -v
  ```
  
  Add a new alias for your fork on github:
  ```
  $ git remote add upstream https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn.git
  ```
  
  Check that your new alias has been properly configured:
  ```
  $ git remote -v
  ```

## conda

### Install miniconda

- [miniconda](https://docs.conda.io/en/latest/miniconda.html)
[installation](https://conda.io/projects/conda/en/latest/user-guide/install/index.html) (latest Python3 version)
- initialize the conda command in git bash
  - Windows: open "Git Bash" and type
  ```
  $ ./Miniconda3/Scripts/conda init bash
  ```
  - Linux:
  ```
  $ conda init bash
  ```
- then close your shell and start a new one to type:
  
  ```
  $ conda info
  ```
  or
  
  ```
  $ which conda
  ```
  to check that the conda command is in your PATH and useable from your shell.

### conda environments

- create an environment (`sklworkshop`)
```
$ conda create --name sklworkshop
```
- activate and deactivate environments
```
$ conda activate sklworkshop
(sklworkshop)$ conda deactivate
```
- version, environment and package listing
```
$ conda --version
$ conda env list
$ conda list
```

## VS Code

Install VSCode following your
[system instructions](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/setup/setup-overview#_cross-platform).

Launch VSCode and configure [Telemetry settings](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/getstarted/telemetry).

Install the Python extension
- `Ctrl+Shift+X` open the extension manager
- search for the python extension: install

Open project folder for numpy: `Ctrl-k Ctrl-o` 

Open a Python file from the project: `setup.py`.

In order to work with VSCode in your Python environment
- `Ctrl+Shift+P` then "python select interpreter" and choose "sklworkshop"

Open project folder for scikit-learn: `Ctrl-k Ctrl-o`

Activate the "sklworkshop" Python interpreter for the scikit-learn project.

Switch between projects: `Ctrl-r`

Browse the code:
- by files `Ctrl-p`
- by symbols `Ctrl-t`

At some point VSCode will complain about not finding a linter: scikit-learn uses `flake8`
- Install `flake8` in your conda environment
```
$ conda activate sklworkshop
(sklworkshop)$ conda install flake8
```
- Select `flake8` as a linter in VSCode: `Ctrl-Shift-P` "select linter"

## Practical code navigation

Find example files that mention the word "importance" in different ways:
- VSCode: `Ctrl-p` "example importance" and open `plot_permutation_importance.py`
- Github: go to https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn in your browser, press `t` and type "example/importance"

Navigate to the RandomForestClassifier or Regressor from the `plot_permutation_importance.py` example:
- VSCode: ctrl-clicking on the class name
- github: clicking on the class name

Find the class KMeans in scikit-learn in two different ways:
- from the command line: using `git grep "class KMeans"` (-i case insensitive, note that without "class" you will find
all occurrences) 
- VSCode: `Ctrl-t` KMeans (disable the jedi extension if it doesn't work)

## Installing C/C++ compilers to be able to build native extensions

Building scikit-learn from source requires a C/C++ compiler (to build native extensions
typically written in Cython for instance).

If you have never installed a C/C++ compiler for your system you need to do it now.

**macOS users:**  you do not need to do anything as there is a compiler installed by default on this
system and it should be enough for the sprint. The scikit-learn build instructions link below gives
more details on how to install OpenMP support for macOS users but this is possibly complex
to setup and not required for the sprint.

See instructions for your OS in the [installation guide](https://scikit-learn.org/stable/developers/advanced_installation.html#building-from-source).
- [Windows](https://scikit-learn.org/stable/developers/advanced_installation.html#windows)
- [macOS](https://scikit-learn.org/stable/developers/advanced_installation.html#macos) (optional)
- [Linux](https://scikit-learn.org/stable/developers/advanced_installation.html#linux)
